DSAA 2044 LAB 5: STEP-BY-STEP STUDENT SETUP
Complete this before the lab. Keep this file open while following the steps.

WHAT YOU NEED
Node.js 24 and npm, your own fork or a downloaded source copy, and a text editor.
An editor such as VS Code is optional. No Android SDK, emulator, database,
global Vitest installation, or ChatGPT subscription is required.

1. INSTALL NODE.JS 24 AND NPM
Open the official download page: https://nodejs.org/en/download
Select the 24.x LTS version, then your operating system and processor.
For beginners, use the official macOS .pkg or Windows .msi installer.
It installs Node.js and npm together. Follow the installer prompts.

On a Mac, use Apple menu > About This Mac to check your processor.
Apple M-series chips are ARM64. Intel Macs are x64.
On Windows, check Settings > System > About > System type.
If you already use a Node version manager, use it to select Node.js 24.
Do not install a second version manager just for this lab.

Close old terminal windows after installation and open a new one.
On macOS, open Terminal. On Windows, open Terminal or PowerShell.
Run each line separately:

  node --version
  npm --version

The first command should show v24.x.x. The second should show a version number.
If either command is missing, reopen the terminal and check the installation.

2. GET YOUR OWN COPY OF THE PROJECT
Open https://github.com/commoluo/dsaa2044-lab5-testing-ci
For GitHub Actions practice, click Fork and create a fork in your own account.
Use your fork's Code button to copy its HTTPS clone address, then run:
  git clone YOUR_FORK_HTTPS_ADDRESS
  cd dsaa2044-lab5-testing-ci
Replace YOUR_FORK_HTTPS_ADDRESS with the actual address shown by GitHub.
If Git is not installed, follow the setup instructions from the course's Git lab.

For local practice only, Code > Download ZIP is another option.
Extract the ZIP completely. Do not work inside its preview.
Open the extracted project folder, usually dsaa2044-lab5-testing-ci-main.
You should see package.json, package-lock.json, src, tests, and demo.
If an outer folder contains another project folder, use the inner folder that
actually contains package.json. Downloading a ZIP does not set up a Git remote;
use a cloned fork if you want to commit and push your exercise.

3. OPEN A TERMINAL IN THE PROJECT FOLDER
In VS Code, open this folder, then choose Terminal > New Terminal.
Without VS Code, use cd followed by your folder's full path in double quotes.

Example for macOS, if you extracted the folder into Downloads:
  cd "$HOME/Downloads/dsaa2044-lab5-testing-ci"

Example for Windows, if you extracted it into Downloads:
  cd "$env:USERPROFILE\Downloads\dsaa2044-lab5-testing-ci"

Adjust the path if you chose a different destination.
On macOS, you can also type cd and a space, drag the folder into Terminal,
and press Enter. The quotes matter when a path contains spaces.

Check that you are in the right directory:
macOS:   ls
Windows: dir
The output must include package.json and package-lock.json.

4. INSTALL THE PROJECT DEPENDENCIES
Run this from the project directory while connected to the internet:

  npm ci

This installs the versions already recorded in package-lock.json, including
Vitest 5.0.3 and TypeScript 7.0.2. It creates the node_modules folder.
It does not require npm install -g, sudo, or an npm account.
Keep package-lock.json. Do not add node_modules to Git.
Install before class, not during the 15-minute exercise.

5. CHECK TYPES AND RUN TESTS
Run each line separately:

  npm run typecheck
  npm test

The type check should finish without errors.
The test result should show one test file passed and six tests passed.

6. RUN THE PROGRAM AND THE FAILURE DEMONSTRATION
Run the shipping program:

  npm run demo:app

It prints inputs 0, 50, 99, 100, and 101 with their shipping fees.
Then run:

  npm run demo:fail

This command is supposed to fail. Input 100 produces 10, while the test expects 0.
Open demo/shipping-buggy.ts. Change amount > 100 to amount >= 100, save the file,
then run npm run demo:fail again. The same boundary test should pass.
Restore > afterwards if you want to repeat the demonstration.

An alternative that requires no edits is:
  npm run demo:fixed
It runs the same boundary assertion against the correct src/shipping.ts function.
The normal npm test command always runs the six tests under tests/.

7. SHOW THE TA THAT YOU ARE READY
You can locate src/shipping.ts and tests/shipping.test.ts.
Your type check succeeds and the normal suite reports six passing tests.
You can explain why the separate faulty demonstration is expected to fail.

COMMON PROBLEMS
"package.json not found" or ENOENT:
  You are in the wrong folder. Use the folder that contains package.json.
"node/npm not found" or "npm is not recognized":
  Reopen the terminal after installing Node.js, then check the versions again.
PowerShell says npm.ps1 cannot run:
  Use npm.cmd in place of npm, for example npm.cmd ci and npm.cmd test,
  or use Command Prompt. Do not change the system execution policy for this lab.
Timeout, EAI_AGAIN, or ECONNRESET during installation:
  Check the network and proxy connection, then retry before class.
  Keep the exact error message for the TA. Do not delete the lockfile.
"Unsupported engine" or TypeScript file-extension errors:
  Check node --version and use Node.js 24 for the classroom baseline.
An optional fsevents install-script warning from a newer npm on macOS:
  If the type check and normal tests pass, continue with the lab.
  Do not enable installation scripts globally. If a check fails, show the TA
  the exact error message before changing installation policy.
Normal npm test fails after you changed the threshold to 150:
  The expectations for 100 and 101 must also change with the requirements.

ABOUT GITHUB ACTIONS
Local testing works without a GitHub account after dependencies are installed.
The CI portion additionally needs internet access, your GitHub repository,
and its workflow file. A local passing test is not proof of a hosted CI run.
The repository setup is described in README.md and the course's Git lab.

OFFICIAL REFERENCES
Node.js download: https://nodejs.org/en/download
Node/npm installation: https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm/
npm ci: https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v11/commands/npm-ci/
Node.js TypeScript support: https://nodejs.org/docs/latest-v24.x/api/typescript.html
